# MeetMeAtMidway Challenge

A crypto challenge for teams to decipher a set of messages that were encrypted using the WW2 Japanese Naval code (JN-25).

## JN-25

JN-25 is the designation for the cipher code primarily used by the Japanese Navy during WW2.  Code breakers used thousands of message examples, knowlege of millitary message formatting and cultural tendencies to decode messages.  At the end of the conflict
only about 60% of the code was broken.

JN-25 used two code books to encrypt/decrypt a message:

1. The first was called the 'Code Group Book', which listed words and an associated 5 digit code, called a code group, in one section.  There was a second section that listed code groups with it's associated word.  An operator would take a plain text message and convert all of the words in the message to their corresponding code groups.
2. A second book, called the 'Additive Key Book', contained thousands of random 5 digit numbers, called additive keys.  The operator would then look up an additive key at a predetermined location (page, column, row) in the additive key book.  The operator would then add the code group number with the additive key without a carry (false addition) resulting in a new 5 digit number.  

    Example:

        word:       food    word to encrypt
        code group: 12345   look up in code group book  
        key:        67890   look up in key group book  
        encrypted:  79135   transmitted code  

    With each code group in the message the operator would use the next additive key in the list until the message was encrypted.

3. On the receiving side the operator would go to the predetermined location in the key book, perform the opposite math operation and look up the resulting code group.

## JN-25 Challenge

Teams will be given the encrypted messages and the Code Group Book at the start of the challenge.  It will be the teams job to determine the additive keys used to encode the given messages, decode the messages and respond with the text of the last message to recieve the flag.

Teams will need to research the JN-25 code to perform the decode.  There are two clues that should point them to the code:

- The challenge states that the file cabinet was labeled 'OP-20-G' which was the war time designation for the US Navy crypto department trying to solve JN-25.
- 'Meet me at Midway' is a reference to the Japanese Navy being tricked into giving away the fact Midway was the target of the next invasion plan.  Using a plain text message stating that Midway water desalination plant had broked down and decoding the resulting JN-25 traffic.

Deviation from JN-25 for the challenge:

The additive key list is the sequential list of 5 digit prime numbers.  Anaylizing the data should show a recognizable pattern of sequential prime numbers.  This was to greatly simplify the challenge.  JN-25 used a list of random 5 digit numbers between 00000 and 99999, the challenge additive key list was from 10007-13339.
